All right, so let's write some tests for our new V.F. and Valse directives.
So on the left hand side, I have my main nav component, and on the right hand side I have its corresponding
test file, which is main nav dot test dot J.S. So I want to scroll down a little bit here to the end
and I want to first begin with another describe function.
Remember, we can just describe functions within other described functions and we use that to provide
some kind of context or simulate a scenario.
And so now I kind of have two scenarios.
One is the user's logged out and the other is that the user's logged in.
And I want to communicate that to my reader and specify that the next test is a kind of undertaken under
a certain scenario, under a certain condition.
So let's begin with the user being logged out.
So I'm going to create another describe here and say when user is logged out.
All right.
And I'm going to provide a function to my describe right here.
And here is where I can actually add a test.
So when the user is logged in or logged out, rather, what do we want to test?
Well, I'm going to create a test here with it that says it prompts user to sign in.
All right.
I'm trying to avoid any kind of implementation details.
I'm just talking about the value to the user when they're not logged in.
We want to invite them to sign into our site.
I'm not super focused now how that's going to happen, whether it's going to be a button or something
else, because we can test that directly in our actual test itself.
The description is just for readability.
All right.
So of course, we know that we have to begin by mounting our main nav component.
And what I'm going to do now is actually use that second argument to mount to customize the data belonging
to the component.
Now, I'm still not a fan of this approach, and we're going to improve this test in a later lesson.
But for now, since we have no way to change the data within our component, we kind of have to go with
this approach to simulate both of our scenarios.
One where is logged in is set to true and one where is logged in is set to false.
Obviously, in the real world the user is going to click on the button and that will eventually trigger
the changing of this, which will change the rendering of this.
And that's ultimately what we want to test in our test because that is how the user interacts with our
component.
But we haven't yet learned how to trigger a click and how to have that change our data.
So for now, we're going to write our test with the tools that we do have at our disposal, and that
is customizing the data using the second argument to the mount function.
So right here I'm going to define my data method, just like in my component.
We talked about this earlier.
We could return an object here with whatever data properties we want.
And of course I want to simulate the is logged in property right here and I'm going to set it equal
to false.
Now you may be curious and say, well, if this is the default starting state of the component, right,
do we really need to do this or can we just render it normally?
And the answer is we could just mount May now without this additional information, because this is
the default starting state.
But in order to help other developers understand what this test is doing and show them how the implementation
is coupled to our component or to our test, rather, I am going to write this explicitly here, just
so I'm reminded of, well, what does it mean to be logged out for the user?
What property is actually affecting this?
I know this contradicts what I said earlier about having the tests, not know about the implementation,
but for now, given that we've accepted that we have to use this approach, that we have to use the
second argument, I figure why not be a little bit more explicit in our tests with what is going on
in the actual implementation so that the reader can see oh the is logged in properties set to false
and that's why we are seeing a log in button.
All right.
So what I want to do here is use another method available on our wrapper.
Earlier on we saw defined method and we saw the find all method.
There is also a convenient method called find component and that's what we want to do because we want
to check for the presence of an actual component within our template if the is logged in property is
set to false.
In this case, if the is logged in property is false, we want to ensure that the user sees the action
button component and doesn't see the profile image component.
So here's what the syntax is going to look like.
I'm going to.
Create a variable here called login button and I'm going to call the find component method on my wrapper.
And right here in order to actually find the component by its name, because we can find a component
by a wide variety of things, we can invoke this method and provide a JavaScript object.
It's a configuration object and here we'll provide a name property and then the name of the component.
And this is the name that we assign to the component in its configuration object in the file.
So if we're looking for the log in button, that is the action button component.
We call that action button in its name property within the action button, that view file.
So here we can write action button.
That's exactly what I have there.
All right.
And then on the next line, I want to repeat the exact same logic, but for our profile image component.
So right here, I'm going to look for the profile image.
I'm going to invoke defined component method and its name is going to be profile image.
All right, let me save this and prettier will make it a little bit cleaner.
All right.
So now I have attempted to find a component somewhere in May now that has this name, and I've done
it for my two different components.
So what do we expect here?
Well, we expect that our login button is going to exist and our profile image is not going to exist.
So what I can do is actually invoke a helpful method on the respective component that I find or perhaps
non component.
And there is a method available on this object that we get back which is this view wrapper object called
exists and exists operates exactly as you might think.
It's going to give you back a boolean that determines whether or not that component exists in the template.
So if the wrapper has a component with the name of action button somewhere in here, then the easiest
method is going to return.
True.
Otherwise it's going to return false.
So we want our login button to exist if the user is logged out, which they are in this case because
is logged in is set to false.
So I'm going to use my to be matcher and put a value of true.
We expect our login button to exist when the user is logged out and we expect our profile image to not
exist.
So I'm going to invoke the same exists method on profile image and I expect this to return false.
So again, the exists method is going to return a boolean either true or false, depending on whether
our test was able to find the given component in the actual markup of our main NAV component.
All right.
So that is our first test.
And now I want to write the inverse test when the user is logged in.
So right here below that describe, I'm going to add a very similar test.
But here I'm going to describe when a user logs in once again, I'm going to provide my function here
and now my test is going to be it displays user profile picture.
That's the responsibility of our main nav component when our user logs in all right now for the most
part our test is going to be pretty simple a similar so I'm going to copy and paste this code right
here and then modify it slightly.
So what are the differences here?
Well, when the user logs in, we expect that somehow the is logged in that a property will be true.
We haven't talked about how to change data yet, but of course we can and I will show you how to do
that in a few lessons, but we'll assume that somehow that is logged in property will be true.
Right.
And we're still going to find these respective components, but now they're going to be inverted.
So our login button should not exist.
So we expect this to be false and our profile image should exist if our login property is such a true
because of course the is logged in property being true will cause this to be true.
The VIF the vrf, which should render our profile image.
All right, so let's go ahead and run this test using NPM run test colon unit that's going to run our
entire test sweep.
And we're going to see if these two tests work.
And I believe they should be perfect.
So everything is working as expected.
We are finding the respective components within our main now.
Now there are two things that I don't like about this test and we talked about some of these things
earlier.
Number one is the manual hard coding of the implementation of the component.
So our tests know a lot about how Main NAV is configured.
It knows about its data and knows about a property called is logged in and knows that that property
has to be a certain way in order to render a certain component.
Right.
And from a user's perspective, accessing our app, they don't care about any of this.
So this is testing a lot of technical details that doesn't actually test the user value of what Main
now is supposed to do.
Right.
And the second issue is using our find component method very similarly to how we talked about the idea
of looking for an HTML element or a class.
This is a lot more brittle because we're connected to the name of an actual component here, like action
button or profile image.
So if tomorrow we go into our action button component and we change its.
Name two something different like super action button or mega button.
Well, all of a sudden, this test, which is totally separate from the from the action button component,
will fail.
Right.
It's going to fail because we're connected to our component name now instead of an HTML element name.
So we're going to attempt to fix these issues in the very next lesson.
But this is a good introductory test.
It's the simplest test that we can write to verify that our code works as expected, and now we can
make it better in the very next lesson.